[Serve] [Doc] Refactor into new Scaling user guide, update code (#27650)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/scaling-and-resource-allocation.md

# Scaling and Resource Allocation

This page should help you:

- Scale your deployments horizontally by specifying a number of replicas
- Scale up and down automatically to react to changing traffic
- Allocate hardware resources (CPUs, GPUs, etc) for each deployment

(scaling-out-a-deployment)=

## Scaling horizontally with `num_replicas`

Each deployment consists of one or more [replicas](serve-architecture#high-level-view).
The number of replicas is specified by the `num_replicas` field in the deployment options.

> By default, `num_replicas` is 1.

Reviewer: also, please specify:
- Each replica runs in a separate process (Ray actor).
- Replicas can run across multiple nodes in a Ray cluster.
- Each replica will have its own resources. We explain more below, but you can say by default each gets a single CPU and then link to the below section for more details.

```python
# Create with a ten replicas.
@serve.deployment(num_replicas=10)
def func(*args):
    pass
```

(ray-serve-autoscaling)=

## Autoscaling

Serve also has support for a demand-based replica autoscaler.
It reacts to traffic spikes via observing queue sizes and making scaling decisions to create or remove replicas.

> To configure it, you can set the `autoscaling` field in deployment options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure it, you can set the `autoscaling_config` field in deployment options.
```

```python
@serve.deployment(
    autoscaling_config={
        "min_replicas": 1,
        "max_replicas": 5,
        "target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica": 10,
    })
def func(_):
    time.sleep(1)
    return ""
```

The `min_replicas` and `max_replicas` fields configure the range of replicas which the
Serve autoscaler chooses from.  Deployments will start with `min_replicas` initially.

> The `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` configuration specifies how aggressively the

Reviewer: should we also mention upscaling/downscaling delay here?

`ray_actor_options`.
By default, each replica requires one CPU.
To learn about options to pass in, take a look at [Resources with Actors guide](actor-resource-guide).

For example, to create a deployment where each replica uses a single GPU, you can do the
following:

```python
@serve.deployment(ray_actor_options={"num_gpus": 1})
def func(*args):
    return do_something_with_my_gpu()
```

(serve-fractional-resources-guide)=

### Fractional Resources

Suppose you have two models and each doesn't fully saturate a GPU.  You might want to have them share a GPU by allocating 0.5 GPUs each.

To do this, the resources specified in `ray_actor_options` can be *fractional*.
This allows you to flexibly share resources between replicas.
For example, if you have two models and each doesn't fully saturate a GPU, you might want to have them share a GPU by allocating 0.5 GPUs each.

```python
@serve.deployment(name="deployment1", ray_actor_options={"num_gpus": 0.5})
def func(*args):
    return do_something_with_my_gpu()

@serve.deployment(name="deployment2", ray_actor_options={"num_gpus": 0.5})
def func(*args):

>     return do_something_with_my_gpu()

Reviewer: the `name` part is likely going to be a bit confusing and isn't relevant to this example. let's name the functions something different instead?

Author: Good catch, I overlooked this

Reviewer 2: The name bit is confusing because you can supply it at `@server.deployment` decorator, `DeploymentClass.options(name=)`. Which takes precedence, I assume the latter.

Author: I think it's the last one declared, but you're both right that it's confusing and not relevant here. I went with Ed's suggestion

**target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica[default_value=1]**: The config is to maintain how many ongoing requests are expected to run concurrently per replica at most. If the number is lower, the scale up will be done more aggressively.
:::{note}
- It is always recommended to load test your workloads. For example, if the use case is latency sensitive, you can lower the `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` number to maintain high performance.
- Internally, the autoscaler will decide to scale up or down by comparing `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` to the number of `RUNNING` and `PENDING` tasks on each replica.
- `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` is only a target value used for autoscaling (not a hard limit), the real ongoing requests number can be higher than the config.
:::

**downscale_delay_s[default_value=600.0]**: The config is to control how long the cluster needs to wait before scaling down replicas.

**upscale_delay_s[default_value=30.0]**: The config is to control how long the cluster need to wait before scaling up replicas.

:::{note}

> `downscale_delay_s` and `upscale_delay_s` are to control the frequency of doing autoscaling work. For example, if your use case takes a long time to do initialization work, you can increase `downscale_delay_s` to make the downscaling happen slowly.

Author: Yeah it happens throughout, I'll edit this

:::

> **smoothing_factor[default_value=1]**: The multiplicative factor to speedup/slowdown each autoscaling step. For example, when the use case has high traffic volume in short period of time, you can increase `smoothing_factor` to scale up the resource quickly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**smoothing_factor[default_value=1]**: The multiplicative factor to speed up or slow down each autoscaling step. For example, when the application has high traffic volume in a short period of time, you can increase `smoothing_factor` to scale up the resource quickly.
```

Does this mean that a high `smoothing_factor` results in choppier autoscaling? It sounds like the higher it is, the quicker the autoscaler scales the deployment.

Author: Yes, this is backwards.  I'll confirm and fix it

Author: Actually the description is correct, the name is bad.  Maybe it should have been called `gain`.  I added a clarifying comment: "You can think of this as a "gain" factor to amplify the response of the autoscaling algorithm."

> **metrics_interval_s[default_value=10]**: This is control how often each replica sends metrics to the autoscaler. (Normally you don't need to change this config.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**metrics_interval_s[default_value=10]**: How often each replica sends metrics to the autoscaler. Normally you don't need to change this config.
```

When should a user change this config?

Author: The only reason I can think of to reduce it would be if you need finer grained autoscaling control (making scaling decisions more often).  My guess is this isn't too important in real world scenarios.

For increasing the interval, I can't think of a reason, other than if you have tons of replicas something related to metrics might break if they get sent too often, but this also seems farfetched.

Author: Should we just delete this? @simon-mo are there other scenarios I failed to imagine?

Reviewer 4: yeah, let's remove it.

(serve-cpus-gpus)=

## Resource Management (CPUs, GPUs)

> You may want to specify a deployment's resource requirements, for example if a deployment requires a GPU.  To assign hardware resources per replica, you can pass resource requirements to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may want to specify a deployment's resource requirements to reserve cluster resources like GPUs.  To assign hardware resources per replica, you can pass resource requirements to
```

`ray_actor_options`.

> By default, each replica requires one CPU.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, each replica reserves one CPU.
```

> To learn about options to pass in, take a look at [Resources with Actors guide](actor-resource-guide).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn about options to pass in, take a look at the [Resources with Actors guide](actor-resource-guide).
```

Does this guide specify which actor options you can/cannot assign to replicas? Only some options are allowed for each replica (as listed [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/8c190e2d0962dc2ac83ebd60c99cad1cf0998d12/python/ray/serve/config.py#L394-L404)). Can we list these options explicitly in this section and describe what they relate to?

Author: Great point.  Makes sense to discuss it here since this is the resource allocation section and most of the allowed options are for resources.  I'll add this

For example, to create a deployment where each replica uses a single GPU, you can do the
following:

```python
@serve.deployment(ray_actor_options={"num_gpus": 1})
def func(*args):
    return do_something_with_my_gpu()
```

(serve-fractional-resources-guide)=

> ### Fractional Resources

Reviewer 3: Can we use the term "fractional GPUs" and "fractional CPUs" somewhere in this section?

That seems to be an industry term referring to the what we're describing. For example, a Google search for "fractional gpu model serving" brings up links like [this](https://www.run.ai/blog/reduce-cost-by-75-with-fractional-gpu-for-deep-learning-inference) and [this](https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/netapp-solutions/ai/osrunai_fractional_gpu_allocation_for_less_demanding_or_interactive_workloads.html).

Reviewer 3: As a start, the current Getting Started guide has [a section that talks about fractional GPUs](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/d809d748cf2ec2e8fc31dbb1256ac33dbca006d0/doc/source/serve/getting_started.md?plain=1#L192-L233). You could take language from there if it helps.

Author: Makes sense, I'll address this

Author: Added it in the header

> Suppose you have two models and each doesn't fully saturate a GPU.  You might want to have them share a GPU by allocating 0.5 GPUs each.

Reviewer: @shrekris-anyscale suggested that we specifically use the phrase "fractional GPUs" in this section in order to help with SEO. Can you try to weave this into the wording somehow?

Reviewer 3: I added some context [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/27650#discussion_r942752829).

> Suppose you have two models and each doesn't fully saturate a GPU.  You might want to have them share a GPU by allocating 0.5 GPUs each.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Suppose you have two models, and neither one fully saturates a GPU.  You can have them share a GPU by allocating 0.5 GPUs each.
```

To do this, the resources specified in `ray_actor_options` can be *fractional*.
This allows you to flexibly share resources between replicas.

> For example, if you have two models and each doesn't fully saturate a GPU, you might want to have them share a GPU by allocating 0.5 GPUs each.

Reviewer 3: > For example, if you have two models and each doesn't fully saturate a GPU, you might want to have them share a GPU by allocating 0.5 GPUs each.

This sentence seems a bit redundant with the first sentence in this section. I think you can remove the first sentence.

```python
@serve.deployment(ray_actor_options={"num_gpus": 0.5})
def func_1(*args):
    return do_something_with_my_gpu()

@serve.deployment(ray_actor_options={"num_gpus": 0.5})
def func_2(*args):
    return do_something_with_my_gpu()
```

In this example, each replica of each deployment will be allocated 0.5 GPUs.  The same can be done to multiplex over CPUs, using `"num_cpus"`.

(serve-omp-num-threads)=

## Configuring Parallelism with OMP_NUM_THREADS

Deep learning models like PyTorch and Tensorflow often use multithreading when performing inference.

> The number of CPUs they use is controlled by the OMP_NUM_THREADS environment variable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The number of CPUs they use is controlled by the `OMP_NUM_THREADS` environment variable.
```

> To [avoid contention](omp-num-thread-note), Ray sets `OMP_NUM_THREADS=1` by default because Ray workers and actors use a single CPU by default.

Reviewer 3: > To [avoid contention](omp-num-thread-note), Ray sets `OMP_NUM_THREADS=1` by default because Ray workers and actors use a single CPU by default.

What is a Ray worker in this context? Is it a task? Can we use a more precise term here?

Author: I would guess task but it could mean a Ray worker process, I'm not sure if there's some subtlety here.  @simon-mo can you confirm?

> If you *do* want to enable this parallelism in your Serve deployment, just set OMP_NUM_THREADS to the desired value either when starting Ray or in your function/class definition:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you *do* want to enable this parallelism in your Serve deployment, just set `OMP_NUM_THREADS` to the desired value either when starting Ray or in your function/class definition:
```
